# Introduction

Here, we focus on developing an explicit spatial probabilistic metaweb
for Canadian mammals. This will show draft predictions of what localized
networks could look like according to our current knowledge, data, and
predictive methods. It will also serve to represent the variability of
interactions and assess the uncertainty associated with the predictions.

# Methods

Fig. 1 shows a conceptual overview of the methodological steps. The
components were grouped as the inputs (spatial or non-spatial), the
localized steps (divided into single-species-level, two-species-level,
and network-level steps), and the final spatial output.

![Figure 1: Conceptual figure of the workflow to obtain the spatial
probabilistic metaweb (Chapter 1). The workflow has three components:
the inputs, the localized steps, and the final spatial output. The
inputs are composed of the spatial data (data with information in every
cell) and the non-spatial data (constant for all of Canada). The
localized steps use these data and are performed separately in every
cell, first at a single-species level (using distribution data), then
for every species pair (adding interaction data from the metaweb), and
finally at the network level by combining the results of all species
pairs. The final output coming out of the network-level steps contains a
spatialized probabilistic metaweb for every cell across the study
extent.](figures/conceptual-figure.png){#fig:conceptual}

## Inputs

The inputs were divided into two main categories: the spatial and
non-spatial ones (*Inputs* box on Fig. 1).

The main building block for the interaction data was the metaweb for
Canadian mammals from @Strydom2022FooWeb, a non-spatial input
(represented as nodes and links on Fig. 1). A metaweb contains all the
possible interactions between the species found in a given regional
species pool [@Dunne2006NetStr]. The species list for the Canadian
metaweb was extracted from the International Union for the Conservation
of Nature (IUCN) checklist [@Strydom2022FooWeb]. Briefly, the metaweb
was developed using graph embedding and phylogenetic transfer learning
based on the metaweb of European mammals, which is itself based on a
comprehensive survey of interactions reported in the scientific
literature [@Maiorano2020TetSpe]. The Canadian metaweb is probabilistic,
which has the advantage of taking into account that species do not
necessarily interact whenever they co-occur [@Blanchet2020CoOcc].
However, the Canadian metaweb is not explicitly spatial: it only gives
information on interactions in Canada as a whole and does not represent
networks at specific locations. Local networks, on the other hand, are
realizations from the metaweb resulting from sorting the species and the
interactions [@Poisot2015SpeWhy]. A spatial and localized metaweb is not
equivalent to the local networks, as it will have a different structure
and a higher connectance [@Strydom2022PreMet]. Therefore, producing a
spatial metaweb requires additional steps to account for species
composition and interaction variability in space.

The spatial data used to develop the spatial component of the metaweb
were species occurrences and environmental data. First, we extracted
species occurrences from the Global Biodiversity Information Facility
(GBIF; www.gbif.org) for the Canadian mammals using `GBIF.jl`
[@Dansereau2021SimJl]. Since GBIF observations represent presence-only
data and most predictive models require absence data, we generated
pseudo-absence data using the surface range envelope method available in
`SimpleSDMLayers.jl` [@Dansereau2021SimJl]. This method generates
pseudo-absences by selecting random non-observed locations within the
spatial range delimited by the presence data [@Barbet-Massin2012SelPse].
Then, we used environmental data and species distribution models [SDMs,
@Guisan2005PreSpe] to predict the distribution of Canadian mammals
across the whole country. The environmental data we used were the 19
standard BIOCLIM climate variables from ==WorldClim 2.0
[@Fick2017WorNew]== and the 12 consensus land cover variables from
EarthEnv [@Tuanmu2014Glo1km]. The climate variables represent various
measures of temperature and precipitation (e.g., annual ranges, monthly
maximum or minimum, seasonality) and are available for land areas across
the globe. Therefore, they can be used to capture the climatic tolerance
of species and model habitat suitability in new locations. The WorldClim
data are available at various resolutions. We decided to use the 2.5
arcmin resolution (around 4.5 km at the Equator) as a compromise to
catch potential local variations while limiting computation costs to a
manageable level. The land cover variables represent classes such as
Evergreen broadleaf trees, Cultivated and managed vegetation,
Urban/Built-up, and Open Water. Values range between 0 and 100 and
represent the consensus prevalence of each class in percentage within a
pixel at a 1-km resolution. Since this is finer than the resolution for
the climate data, we coarsened the land cover ones to the same 2.5
arcmin resolution using @GDAL/OGRcontributors2021GdaOgr.

Our selection criteria for choosing an SDM algorithm was to have a
method that generated probabilistic results, including both a
probability of occurrence for a species in a specific location and the
uncertainty associated with the prediction. These were crucial to
obtaining a probabilistic version of the metaweb as they were used to
create spatial variations in the localized interaction probabilities
(see next section). One promising method for this is Gradient Boosted
Trees with a Gaussian maximum likelihood from the `EvoTrees.jl` *Julia*
package (https://github.com/Evovest/EvoTrees.jl). This method returns a
prediction for every pixel with an average value and a standard
deviation, which we used as a measure of uncertainty to build a Normal
distribution for the probability of occurrence of a given species at all
pixels (represented as probability distributions on Fig. 1).

## Localized steps

The next part of the method was the localized steps which produce local
metawebs in every pixel. This component was divided into single-species,
two-species, and network-level steps (*Localized steps* box on Fig. 1).

The single-species steps represented four possible ways to account for
uncertainty in the species distributions and bring variation to the
spatial metaweb. We explored four different options to select a value
from the occurrence distributions obtained in the previous steps (Inputs
section): 1) taking the mean from the distribution as the probability of
occurrence (option 1 on Fig. 1); 2) converting the mean value to a
binary one using a specific threshold per species (option 2); 3)
sampling a random value within the Normal distribution (option 3); 4)
converting the random value into a binary result (option 4). The
threshold ($\tau$ on Fig. 1) used was the value that maximized Youden's
*J* informedness statistic [@Youden1950IndRat], the same metric used by
@Strydom2022FooWeb at an intermediate step while building the metaweb.
The four sampling options were intended to explore how uncertainty and
variation in the species distributions can affect the metaweb result and
reproduce some of the filterings that create the local network
realizations [@Poisot2015SpeWhy]. We expected thresholding to have a
more pronounced effect on network structure as it should reduce the
number of links by removing many of the rare interactions
[@Poisot2016StrPro]. Meanwhile, we expected random sampling to create
spatial heterogeneity compared to the mean probabilities, as including
some extreme values should disrupt the potential effects of
environmental gradients.

Next, the two-species steps aimed to give the probability of observing a
given interaction in a location. For all species pairs, we multiplied
the two species' occurrence probability obtained using the sampling
options described in the previous paragraph, then multiplied the
co-occurrence probability by the interaction probability from the
Canadian metaweb.

The network-level steps then created the probabilistic metaweb for the
location. We assembled all the local interaction probabilities (from the
two-species steps) into a probabilistic network [@Poisot2016StrPro]. We
then sampled several random network realizations to represent the
potential local realization process [@Poisot2015SpeWhy]. Finally, this
resulted in a distribution of localized networks, which we averaged over
the number of simulations to obtain a probabilistic network.

## Outputs and additional steps

The final output of our method was the spatial probabilistic metaweb,
which contains a localized probabilistic metaweb in every cell across
the student extent (Outputs box on Fig. 1). This gives us an idea of the
possible networks in all locations as the metaweb essentially serves to
set an upper bound on the potential interactions [@Strydom2022PreMet],
but with the added benefit of accounting for co-occurrence probabilities
in this case. From there, we can create maps of network properties
(e.g. number of links, connectance) measured on the local realizations,
display their spatial distribution, and compute some community-level
measures such as species richness. Importantly, we can also calculate
the uncertainty associated with the network and community measurements
and contrast their spatial distribution. We computed uncertainty for
species richness by summing the standard deviations of the species
occurrence probabilities. For networks, we computed link variance based
on the link probabilities according to @Poisot2016StrPro. We then
contrasted their spatial distributions to identify areas where their
uncertainty matches. These would either indicate that we should trust
the predictions (if the uncertainty is low) or need more sampling (if
the uncertainty is high) to improve our current knowledge. On the other
hand, identifying areas where the richness and link uncertainty do not
match would also be highly informative. It could lead to targeted
sampling programs for either component (community or network
composition).

We compared the compositional uniqueness of the networks and the
communities to verify if they indicated different exceptional areas. We
measured uniqueness using the local contributions to beta diversity
[LCBD, @Legendre2013BetDiv], which identify sites with exceptional
composition by quantifying how much one site contributes to the total
variance in the community composition. While many studies used LCBD
values to evaluate uniqueness on local scales or few study sites [for
example, @daSilva2014LocReg; @Heino2017ExpSpe], recent studies used the
measure on predicted species compositions over broad spatial extents and
a large number of sites [@Vasconcelos2018ExpImp; @Dansereau2022EvaEco].
LCBD values can also be used to measure uniqueness for networks by
computing the values over the adjacency matrix, which has been shown to
capture more unique sites and uniqueness variability than through
species composition [@Poisot2017HosPar]. Here, we measured and compared
the uniqueness of our localized community and network predictions. We
were especially interested in seeing if the sites identified as unique
were the same based on the species and the interactions or if this
method allowed identifying areas unique for one element (interactions,
for instance) but not the other. Sites with such mismatches should
warrant more investigation to understand the reasons for this
difference.

# Results

Fig. 2 shows ecoregion-level measures.

![Figure 2: (A-B) Example of a community measure (A, expected species
richness) and a network one (B, expected number of links). Both measures
are assembled from the predicted probabilistic communities and networks,
respectively. Values are first measured separately for all sites, then
the median value is taken to represent the ecoregion-level value. (C-B)
Representation of the 89% interquantile range of values within the
ecoregion for expected richness (C) and expected number of links
(D).](figures/ecoregion_comparison_iqr.png){#fig:ecoregion_measures}

Fig. 3 shows the LCBD results for the ecoregions.

![Figure 3: (A-B) Representation of the ecoregion uniqueness values
based on species composition (a) and network composition (b). LCBD
values were first computed across all sites and scaled relative to the
maximum value observed. The ecoregion LCBD value is the median value for
the sites in the ecoregion. (C) Bivariate representation of species and
network composition LCBD. Values are grouped into three quantiles
separately for each variable. The colour combinations represent the nine
possible combinations of quantiles. The species uniqueness (horizontal
axis) goes left to right from low uniqueness (light grey, bottom left)
to high uniqueness (green, bottom right). The network composition
uniqueness goes bottom-up from low uniqueness (light grey, bottom left)
to high uniqueness (blue, top left). (D) Probability densities for the
ecoregion LCBD values for species and network LCBD (left), highlighting
the variability of the LCBD between ecoregions, and the 89%
interquartile range of the values within each ecoregion (right),
highlighting the variability within the
ecoregions.](figures/ecoregion_LCBD_4panels.png){#fig:ecoregion_lcbd}

# Discussion
